{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww23900\viewh13280\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs36 \cf0 \
** Main discussion topics that the panelists intend to present in the 5 minute introductory portions of the panel format **\
\

\f1\b Martin
\f0\b0  **will introduce the panel in 5 minutes**\
\
My name is Martin Lopatka, I\'92m a research Engineering Manager at Mozilla - I work in the space of privacy technology and machine learning. This year it is my absolute privilege to be invited as the moderator of Mozilla\'92s panel here at CPDP. \
\
Thank you all for being here, CPDP can be overwhelming in terms of the sheer amount of incredibly interesting content going on in parallel. I\'92d like to take a moment to introduce and contextualize this panel.\
\
Mozilla as an organization is committed to the health of the Web and ensuring that technology we engage with and work on acts to empower people and \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
enriches their lives.\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\
The aim of the panel is to present a rounded discussion that captures a systems-level view of the interactions between personalization algorithms, online privacy, tracking technology, and how these things shape the online experiences of citizens. I hope that this format will facilitate a truly multi-disciplinary discussion and an opportunity to address the complexity of these issues and the interactions between subtopics that so often fall within a narrower domain of expertise. \
\
I would also like to ensure that we leave ample time for an active discussion, including prepared remarks and structured discussion and then followed by questions from all of you. In the interest of saving time I will leave it to each of the panelists to introduce themselves along with their opening remarks.\
\
So without further delay, I would like to begin with our first speaker\'85 Fanny.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0  \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 ** We will proceed in the following order (Fanny, Matt, Stefania, Sarah) **\
\

\f1\b Fanny
\f0\b0 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\partightenfactor0
\cf0 - Introduction: Digital rights organization at the intersection of technology and society, focused on EU level legislations. Coordinating AI and human rights work Advertisement models are different in Central European countries.\
- Summary: Will provide details of the current European policy and demonstrate the complexity of the the policy space. Bring the perspective of a human rights lawyer.\
Snap-shot of the complexities of the policy space.\
- Attention economy (as a driver)\
- Risks related to freedom of opinion\
- Lack of information about curation \
- Data protection and dat collection\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \

\f1\b Matt
\f0\b0 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\partightenfactor0
\cf0 - Introduction: Public policy at guardian media group, telecom media, and parliament. Looking at press freedom and media plurality, how to distribute and monetize journalistic content that is produced. Granular targeted advertising. Remedies to the market allowing privacy for consumers.\
- Summary: speak to how journalists are regulated versus online platform. Discussion of how malicious actors use different platform characteristics to influence public opinion and voter perspectives.\
\
- Enabling journalism in both physical and digital form\
- Enable monetization of journalism without compromising its integrity.\
- Regulation of journalistic content, libel and defamation law.\
- Self regulation.\
- Advertising regulation, transparency, advertisers also demand a high level of quality when they advertise with a high quality publication.\
- targeting advertisement, not good for privacy.\
- browser policies and clamping down on policies, may lead to asymmetries in accessibility of different quality content.\
\

\f1\b Stefania
\f0\b0 \
- Introduction: Professor of new media at UvA; research into \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
datafication and surveillance Algorithmic bias. Exploring the intersection of digital technology, governance and political participation.\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
- Summary:  An introduction to algorithmic bias and its systematization in recommender systems, how this can lead to asymmetries in information access, public opinion, participation and societal implications. \
- ALEX project (open source tools for algorithmic accountability)\
- platforms need to be monitored, their power is too great, specifically recommender systems.\
- inhibits our means to understand the information that we can access.\
- worries about platforms being able to cater content to specific tailored experiences. This is convenient, but creates a bias in world view and can be based on incorrect assumptions.\
- forge a specific reality for each user and define their information diet. \
- Personalization algorithms are typically opaque! Meaning that regulators and regular citizens have no way to examine the inner workings of their personal filter.\
- example of dynamic pricing on Amazon.\
- tracking is required and shared, but evidence is hard to come by.\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 Sarah
\f0\b0 \
- Introduction: Research Engineer looking at tracking detection in Desktop browser and Browser security research. \
- Summary: Discuss the technical/technological asymmetry in the same space. Provide a small window into the disconnection between technology and consumers. How do you provide a default privacy environment without breaking the web. Behind the scenes aggregation of our data by private entities that we can not observe. Give an idea of the scale and scope of online efforts to track individual users.\
- Tracking technology researcher at Mozilla\
- Advertisement in marketting\
- Scale of what is happening out there\'85 the way that they follow us around the web. 5 third parties per website visit.\
- MSN.com 0-25 third-parties\
- Pornhub 1-11 third-parties\
- 2016 crawl website showed that news websites had the most third-party resources, with shopping being the second.\
- Third party activity as a consequence of GSPR showed small but significant decrease, but shapes the experience of the web.\
- dozens of players in the ecosystem, but rather the adtech middleman. \
\
** Moving to Structured Q&A session **\
\

\f1\b Questions\

\f0\b0 Q1 [addressed to Fanny]: Matt described an uneven playing field in terms of regulation between journalistic sources in the media landscape. How does that unlevelled playing field change in a context that includes state controlled entities?\
- Rebuttal/discussion from all panelists\
\
Q2 [addressed to Matt]: Given the current regulatory landscape and the reality of enforcement mechanisms, how have the positions of publishers changed? \
What are the implications of the current state of the digital advertising ecosystem on journalism and the possibility of a more privacy-centric interaction with readers?\
- Rebuttal/discussion from all panelists\
\
Q3 [addressed to Stefania]: Are we seeing effects in the media landscape reflected in the polarization of content that individuals have access to via recommender systems? And does this, in turn, have an observable effect on public opinions and discourse?\
- Rebuttal/discussion from all panelists\
\
Q4 [addressed to Sarah]: From a technical perspective, what degree profile building and resale of private data can we detect and how much can only be inferred as going on behind the scenes?\
- Rebuttal/discussion from all panelists\
\

\f1\b Backup questions for driving the conversation \

\f0\b0 \
Fanny\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Q1: How is personalized algorithmic micro targeting related to GDPR? How can an industry explicitly aimed at tracking users and rejoining their identities reconcile with the enforcement via GDPR and Is it possible to protect myself legally (if not technically)? \
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Q2: Explicitly address election interference, these platforms have facilitated the interaction by state actors to bypass usual regulation and offer an effective interaction avenue that disconnects politic parties from misleading communication. \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Matt\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Q1: Have regulatory interventions and market forces interacted such as to allow a handful of companies to monetize the long tail fo the web? \
Q2: has the GDPR actually curbed the sale of online data/made it harder for adtech intermediary companies? Does the current trend benefit big players like Google and Facebook by pushing publishers to be more reliant to authenticated users?\
Q3: How effective are subscription models/ pay per read in the competition versus \'93free\'94 content providers? \
Q4: What is the necessity of a social media presence for news/media publishers, is it all about reach or a more complex relationship? \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Stefania\
Q1: How do we feel about the regulation of tech platforms especially in terms of things like recommender systems and the core technology being deployed?\
Q2: Are current regulatory solutions via piecemeal code-of-practices enforceable and/or effective under current laws?\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Q3: How does personalization on web content affect individuals\'92 ability to access information online?\
Q4: How does the prevalence of social media as a content platform affect the ability of an average citizen top access a diverse set of viewpoints on a topic? \
\
Sarah\
Q1: Technically, what can an individual do to prevent private information from being exfiltrated while they browse the web? \
Q2: You characterize the current role of browser vendors as in an \'93arms race\'94 with Adtech, can you elaborate on the role of Desktop and Mobile browsers in relation to publishers and advertisers?\
}